When a blood vessel is cut or damaged,
blood loss needs to be stopped.
This happens through coagulation
or clotting of blood to form a plug.
Clotting begins when cell fragments
called platelets circulating in your blood
begin to clump or stick together.
This is called platelet aggregation.
The clumps of platelets are held together
by a network of protein molecules
called fibrin activated by
clotting factors in your blood.
A blood clot is made up of
fibrin and clumps of platelets.
Antiplatelet drugs prevent clumping of platelets.
Millions of people take them to prevent
inappropriate or dangerous clotting
that can block blood flow and
cause a stroke or heart attack.
They are used to treat a variety of conditions.
For example, they can prevent blood clots
in an artery clogged with plaque.
Antiplatelet drugs are also a
very important part of care
after placement of a stent
to restore free blood flow through a clogged artery.
Sometimes stents can become
blocked with scar tissue.
This is called restenosis.
Some stents are coated with medicine
to help prevent this.
Blood flow is also occasionally
blocked when platelets attracted to the stent
site and healing process form blood clots.
This is called thrombosis;
it can cause a potentially fatal heart attack
or necessitate a repeat procedure.
Antiplatelet drugs help
to keep these clots from forming.
Different antiplatelet drugs
work in different ways.
They need to be taken for as long
as your doctor directs.
Don’t stop them without permission
of the doctor who prescribed them.